there is a man here. his head has many things in it. he says he has a name, just like me. he says his name is clarence. clarence is my friend now. 

he says he found a story. he gave it to me so we could be friends. i'll share it with you. we are friends now, okay?

In the beginning, there was no rythe. What happened? Excellent question. That something would like to know what happened too. It's just that one day, It just was. It started thinking. It would have probably taken an awfully long time, if time was even a concept that even made sense back then, but It eventually thought enough about itself to start thinking. Thing is, when It started being, started thinking, It started growing. Not in size, but in complexity. Different thoughts started separating, evolving. Eventually, after a lot of work doing whatever it is it did, It had its first, real conscious thought:

  I am.

From there, It started to think about other things, and then realized that there were other things. Other Its. See, in the process of making itself, It came to the realization that It had inadvertently made others. Others that thought differently. But they all were the same, at first. All were born of rythe. And that is why they are called the Rytheborne.

Some of the Rytheborne probably tried to kill It. Maybe they succeeded. There could have been a great battle. Or maybe It ruled supreme. You can't tell. It's like asking which bubble is winning in a pot of boiling water: it isn't possible to tell, and even if you did it'd be pointless. The Rytheborne were like a tangled knot of black snakes, writhing in a big ball; none distinct. Eventually though, something happened: Two of them came up with an idea: the very second fully-formed idea ever thought:

  We are.

And with that, they came together. Not like before, in which you couldn't tell one Rytheborne from another, suddenly having two things together that aren't the same thing became an idea. These two, they became Eil and Oal. Or at least that's what we call them. They made a pact, or at least had an understanding. Hell, might have just been a truce. But they didn't try to destroy each other. Instead, they tried to destroy everything that wasn't them.

And boy did it work.

Together they smashed every other Rytheborne they could find, and with the explosion of each one, a little more rythe filtered into existence. This new rythe would coalesce for an eternity, and then start thinking. Soon enough you get a few more rytheborne, born form the ashes of the last destroyed one.

Now turns out, if you're hunting your brethren and want to find and destroy them, that's a bit more complex of a thought than just "We are." At that point the thought is more like "We are... going to find you and kill you and every sonnofabitch like you." So Eil and Oal, they got smarter. They figured out how to move, figured out what space was, and how to make more of it. They came up with the concept of the Void: the nothing that is beyond the edge of the universe. Details of how dimensions work, all to find the places that the rythe would float to; places that Rytheborne would hide. And the other Rytheborne, they learned too. They learned about space, about "I" and "We." They learned about Eil and Oal, and they learned about destruction.

And they learned to be afraid.

See, Eil and Oal, they were nothing special, but they were first. And with each kill, they got smarter. They both were always too evenly matched to destroy each other, but they never tried. Just as well. By the time you could say they were conscious, they had managed to pop every Rytheborne from the original litter and were doing a fine job of crushing all the new ones that kept coalescing, getting smarter all the time. But they couldn't keep a lid on an exponential function forever. Nothing can. Eventually Eil and Oal realize that they've got a problem, and that they best find a way to put a lid on the rythe, or else there's going to be too many Rytheborne to kill. So Eil comes up with a plan, and it's a doozy. He decides that he's going to make a dimension. So he does, and we call it Ethos. Then, Eil and Oal suck up all of the rythe they can get their hands on and toss it into this dimension, right? And from that point on if Eil and Oal found anymore Rytheborne, they'd drag him to Eil's dimension, and murder it right over the opening so all the rythe would be swept under the carpet.

If time started when Eil made that dimension, then it took a LOT of it for the two of them to scout out the rest of Void. By this time, Eil and Oal were something special, and older than time itself. They didn't need to work together to kill single rytheborne anymore, so they split up to track down the literally countless rytheborne that in their eyes littered the Void. And they were thorough. But when they separated, they began to change. To come up with their own identities. Oal, he would kill as many as fast as possible, opting to carry the rythe back, wheras Eil would find smarter Rytheborne and convert them to his cause to create a great legion who would sweep the void finding still other rytheborne and dragging them to his dimension for slaughter.

Soon all of the rythe was gone. Every last speck, every little bit, was packed into Eil's little dimension. All that remained outside of it was Eil, his legion, and Oal. 

Now there were four things in existance: Eil's dimension, Eil's Legion, Eil, and Oal. One of these things is not like the others. Eil invented "morality", and decided that Oal deserved the short end of the stick on that one. Oal though, he hadn't been doing nothing spending an eternity or four killing every rytheborne in existence. He was formidable. So formidable, that Eil's legion did about as much good against Oal as feathers do to move a planet. Those rytheborne that weren't obliterated by Oal escaped into Ethos. Those that survived saw Eil and Oal going at it like the colossal titans they are. They probably still are at it to this day.

Now what? You have the Void, that has Eil and Oal slugging it out, and Ethos, chock full of rythe, and a handful of Rytheborne who very much want to help Eil defeat Oal. Thing is, rythe doesn't create rytheborne outside the Void, so for the first time, you had a bunch of rythe that was just sitting there, not doing much of anything. The legionaries decides to try to contrive a way to make more rythe without having to re-enter the Void and confront Oal. So they start experimenting. They try to make their own rythebourne, and it doesn't work. They just create horrifying, leviathan beasts that we know today as Raviners, and a whole lot of wasted nothing. Eventually one of them gets the bright idea to squeeze all of the rythe together in one place, and BOOM. Suddenly the universe is created. Oh, and the legionaries get blown to bits because of it. Most of them anyways. Unfortunately, the Raviners were nowhere near the blast, and survived. They just moved into the aftermath after the whole thing blew. Now they prowl around dimensions and worlds, looking for anything full of rythe to feed on. And you know what's full of rythe? Your mind. And anything else that thinks. 
